# Introduction to ApplicationSet controller

## Introduction

* ApplicationSet controller
  * == [Kubernetes controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/) / 
    * adds support -- for an -- `ApplicationSet` [CRD](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/)
  * allows,
    * about managing Argo CD Applications | ACROSS clusters & [monorepos](Use-Cases.md#use-case-monorepos),
      * automation
      * greater flexibility
  * | Argo CD v2.3, 
    * ApplicationSet controller is bundled | Argo CD
  * provides -- TODO: how to mix with "allows" -- 
    - FROM 1! Kubernetes manifest,
      - target MULTIPLE Kubernetes clusters
      - deploy MULTIPLE applications -- from -- >=1 Git repositories
    - | [monorepos](Use-Cases.md#use-case-monorepos),
      - better support 
    - | multitenant clusters,
      - easily individual cluster tenants can deploy applications /
        - ❌NOT need cluster administrators enable the destination clusters/namespaces❌
  * cons
    * [security implications](./Security.md)

* [Generators](Generators.md)

## Parameter substitution into templates

TODO: 
Independent of which generator is used, parameters generated by a generator are substituted into `{{parameter name}}` values within the `template:` 
section of the `ApplicationSet` resource. In this example, the List generator defines `cluster` and `url` parameters,
which are then substituted into the template's `{{cluster}}` and `{{url}}` values, respectively.

After substitution, this `guestbook` `ApplicationSet` resource is applied to the Kubernetes cluster:

1. The ApplicationSet controller processes the generator entries, producing a set of template parameters.
2. These parameters are substituted into the template, once for each set of parameters.
3. Each rendered template is converted into an Argo CD `Application` resource, which is then created (or updated) within the Argo CD namespace.
4. Finally, the Argo CD controller is notified of these `Application` resources and is responsible for handling them.


With the three different clusters defined in our example -- `engineering-dev`, `engineering-prod`, and `finance-preprod` -- 
this will produce three new Argo CD `Application` resources: one for each cluster.

Here is an example of one of the `Application` resources that would be created, for the `engineering-dev` cluster at `1.2.3.4`:
```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: engineering-dev-guestbook
spec:
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/infra-team/cluster-deployments.git
    targetRevision: HEAD
    path: guestbook/engineering-dev
  destination:
    server: https://1.2.3.4
    namespace: guestbook
```
We can see that the generated values have been substituted into the `server` and `path` fields of the template, 
and the template has been rendered into a fully-fleshed out Argo CD Application.


The ApplicationSet controller will ensure that any changes, updates, or deletions made to `ApplicationSet` resources are automatically
applied to the corresponding `Application`(s).

For instance, if a new cluster/URL list entry was added to the List generator, a new Argo CD `Application` resource would be accordingly created 
for this new cluster. Any edits made to the `guestbook` `ApplicationSet` resource will affect all the Argo CD Applications that were instantiated
by that resource, including the new Application.

While the List generator's literal list of clusters is fairly simplistic, much more sophisticated scenarios are supported by the other available
generators in the ApplicationSet controller.
